The player takes on the role of a private detective (classic film noir detective). During the day they will search for puzzles and mysteries to solve. At night, they are haunted by terrible dreams in which he must defend himself from demons and monsters. 
>**Pete:** When is this set? The thirties could be interesting, as could the post-war paranoia of the 50's. 
>**Stu:** I like either, though I don't think a specific era is nessacery, from a players point of view. Would be easier for desinging the game tho :D 
>**Pete:** 50's would work nicely - I could imagine outside forces at work and hidden throughout much of the 50's - fits in possibly with the whole surge of weird things like Roswell. Also, 50s diners look very tasty. Perhaps an older gent? 50's himself, so he's lived through the wars etc... and he could look down on the emerging "rock n roll" culture perhaps. Possibly in a closed loop - like a small island (Think of Isle of Man or The Prisoner) so there is a reason he cannot leave the island. How easy is water in Ogre? An island gives us a nice small area we can easily map out, and no invisible borders etc...

At night, the PI will have his trusty 6-shooter as his primary weapon. The gun should be anthropomorphised with a female name. He may have a switchblade or something as a secondary weapon.

>**Pete:** Is the town the town he has always lived in (in which case people already know him) or is this a town he has ended up in? If the latter (which I would suggest) there would be an element of distrust and outright paranoia. Much like the castle in Kafka's Castle - the town is populated by people who want literally nothing to do with him and indeed see no reason for him to be there. He is pushed around from place to place never allowed to feel at home. The problem with him having always lived in the town is that everything is familiar. 
>**Stu:** True, but we need people to trust him, to a point, as he's a detective :P 
>**Pete:** True - just figured maybe he would be looked down on or something (like he's a failed cop or something?)

>**Pete:** Also, what is the status of the town? Is it a busy town, or one where most people stay away for fear of the killings / monster? Graphic and programming wise, the more broken down and isolating the town, the easier it would be to make it look / act well. 
>**Stu:** I agree, we just want a few people in the town. However, we don't want to make it too easy to work out who you're looking for. If we make it something similar to the number of people in Deus Ex, we can get the generic mooks to just follow a path in the world and give a single response, then we just have to worry about render/processing. 
>**Pete:** Sounds good to me. A small but affluent town would make a nice antidote to Silent Hill, Bioshock etc... We can see the town is an ordinary functioning place, but as the game progresses we realise there are some odd things happening inside it. I'll have a wee brain natter with myself about this. I reckon we should stay away from the whole HP Lovecraft thing - giant demons and stuff is a bit overused.